Hi my name is Dave Melly, I am a teacher hereat george brown college i've been a butcher
for the last 15 years of my life I used to
be one of the partners of a company called
the healthy butcher and today we're going to
be butchering some beef and some veal
what Igot in front of me is a beef tenderloin
this is a whole beef tenderloin fat removed
and on this end here
this is the butt end of the tenderloin
as we move into the middle, this middle section
is known as our Tournedos and then
this is our tail end of our beef tenderloin and
it tapers to get skinnier first thing I'm goingto do
to do when I start butchering the beef tenderloin
is I'm going to remove what's called the chain
the chain is just a piece of meat right here
usually while I take the chain I'm going to
start to remove the first layer of membrane
that would be surrounding the beef tenderloin
the chain will end right where what we call one
of the ears of the tenderloin so this butt end
of the tenderloin has got these two larger
pieces on the side they're often referred to
as ears those are colloquial terms but they
make a lot more sense once you see the whole
all right so now my chain is removed next thing
i'm going to do is I'm going to finish removing
the membrane from the from the
exterior of this tenderloin
the silver skin acts a lot like
the singeing of a rope so it will hold
the muscle fibers
together and if you don't remove them
all it'll make this particular muscle appear
to be tougher than it actually is so proper
butchery of this is paramount because a lot
of the value in the beef tenderloin is simply
you